[MUSIC]
>> Lukas: I've been actually torn all day
long about just the commentary that I'm
going to offer on component router.
I think that in angular one obviously
NG route was pretty deficient,
NG router, which is why everybody
just starting using UI router.
I think that component router
has some really good ideas but
I find that it is the single most
frustrating thing outside of tooling.
Directly involved with Angular 2 is
that component router is really,
really frustrating for me.
So for instance, named parallel views,
apparently they have this concept,
it's auxiliary routes,
I didn't have an opportunity to do that.
With that said, Brian Ford has said
as much that there will be alternate
routing solutions forthcoming.
And so I think that he is doing
a solid pass, but I know for a fact
that there's going to be
a router coming for ngrx.
I hope I was allowed to say that.
Whatever, cat's out of the bag.
And so now having this reactive
router is really, really compelling.
So I think for
now, what you use to route, well component
router because that's all you got.
With that said, I tend to find child
routes and few other things to be,
every time I do it,
it doesn't work the way that I expect and
I get frustrated and
I throw a chair out the window.
But tomorrow the goal is, as I said today,
we've been working on a single feature,
how do we create the component, the
template, the binding and the service, and
complete the single feature
within an application.
Tomorrow, we're going to work on how do we
start to compose these features together.
And so if we see a component and
the service around it is a single feature,
it's a building block, then how do
we start to put those together?
And so the application we're
gonna use is a master detail view
that communicates with
a local rest server.
So I believe that master detail
is the single most fundamental
interface that exists for applications.
And so what that is is when you
have a master list of something,
when you select on an item then
you get the details for that.
So, just a master of detail interface
that when you really stop and
look at applications,
unless it's something totally far out,
98% of line of business apps and just
apps in general are a variation of that.
Is, I have a list of items,
I wanna select an item and
I wanna see information on that item and
possibly update it.
Or if no item is selected,
I want to create an item and
put that into that collection.
So that's what we're going
to be working on tomorrow.
And so I have a working feature set for
that and
then we will build something
in parallel to that.
So to accomplish that,
and we will talk about,
we'll pick up component router tomorrow,
but
the two things that I want
to point out is in our app
component
>> Lukas: We are importing, or
we're using, the RouteConfig metadata to
define our routes, and so you get a path.
So, you say,
when I want to navigate to this route,
here's the path that I'm going to use.
Name of that route and
the component you want to map to it.
So again you're just mapping
a component to a path.
And then within your HTML,
with Angular 1 it was NG route,
which UI router was UI router
in this case it's router outlet.
The semantics are bit confusing to me like
what I think of like why is it router
outlet, I guess it's-
>> Speaker 2: What's where the router
was it's output?
>> Lukas: Yes so
there we know it's crystal clear.
>> [LAUGH]
>> Lukas: He's writing
that on the wall, right there.
Life changing event for Lucas at 4:42 PM,
Minnesota standard time.
Okay so, you're simply saying, this goes
here, you can, unlike NG route, you can
stock your router-outlets into children
components, so that's pretty good.
So the one thing that component router
does give us is the ability to compose
child routes,
where that did not exist with NG route,
UI router did that very well, and so
we do have that option or that ability.
There's a working plunk if you
want to go check that out.
And to navigate, we use routerLink, and so
that just links to a route in the router,
and in this case we want to go to home.
About experiments, widgets, and then for
parameters, you don't actually
define that on the route definition.
You just add this to the object here.
I believe it's in here.
And I guess I'll just, dang it, Scott.
You totally got me burned
into these slides.
I hate you so much.
>> Speaker 2: Seth,
we can save the route for tomorrow.
>> Lukas: Hang on.
I'm already here.
So router outlet,
routerLink just you're pointing to it.
You can also use if you
inject the router service.
You can do .navigate to it, I know how to
make Scott redo this all tomorrow and.
So what I was trying to say is that
routerLink, you put the name in but
then you can do colon and
you can actually put in URL parameters.
And from here, our query parameters and
then you can consume them
using the RouteParams service.
So there's a working point for
all of this.
What is the other thing.
And then there's just a specific
syntax for child routes.
If you have a parent route that has
a child route you denote that with
a forward slash dot dot dot.
And then you just define your routes
in the child component relative
to the parent component.
And if you have more than one child route,
make sure to set a default
route when you arrive there.
Or Angular 2 would just simply say,
I have these three routes but
I don't know which one to go to.
Air.
>> Lukas: And that was the router
module in five minutes.
We're gonna talk about this more tomorrow,
we'll see this in action.
So I know Scott wanna rush it,
but sorry bro.
I couldn't help myself.
>> Lukas: And so the big things is,
you're simply saying I wanna
map this URL to this component.
I'm going to give it this name.
And then you use the routerLink
to navigate to it.
And you can stack them up
into parent components,
children components,
all the way down like turtles.